welcome to another episode of coffee
break with pam
today i want to answer an important
question about something we have
all likely experienced at some point in
our careers
that's right
today's topic is how to overcome
imposter syndrome
yes how to overcome imposter syndrome
how many times have we wished that we
were someone else because their lives
just seemed so much better
than ours
growing up i always want to be someone
else no kidding it took me a long time
to overcome impostor syndrome so now i
want to share with you how i did it so
you can be your unique self with full
confidence as well
by the way my coffee break is indicated
to linkedin
facebook youtube and twitter
if you missed any of my live streams you
can always go back and check out my
archive of recorded video that pam
ditner youtube channel
if you like the way i explain things
please please give the video thumbs up
subscribe to my channels and comment
below love love love to hear from you
so now back to the topic
we have found ourselves always looking
at someone else presenting communicating
even that how they dress you know and
thinking god i wish i could be like that
here are several things i've done to
overcome that very intrusive and
negative thoughts and feelings
number one
don't believe everything you see on
social media and this is very important
because we check social medias all the
time
and honestly the rise of the social
media and how much time we spend on it
has exasperated impostor syndrome for
everyone including me
everybody's life seems just perfect
right on social media and the
accomplishments appear larger than life
i want to tell you
to take what you see on social media
with a grain of salt
don't get too caught up in someone
else's photo or their happy lives
remember that a photo or video conveys
only one moment at a time
no one's life is perfect every single
minute no one
right
someone may showed off great travel
photos but you don't know how they pay
for it maybe they charge to their credit
cards you know
someone may post
scenes of a great time partying
this weekend okay that's excellent but
you don't know what their all the days
are like
if people are happy on social media well
let's be happy for them
but always remember you don't know what
their real lives are like
they're likely have struggles like all
of us that we face every day
and this is a statement i saw on
facebook many many times
we buy things we don't need with money
we don't even have to impress the people
we don't like
is that so true
[Laughter]
i tell i'm telling you i do that
i do that
right
and that pretty much sums up what social
media is all about
so once you see through that
you will feel so much better about
yourself
number two
this is very important learn to love
yourself i mean really love yourself
you can be self-critical
but never self-loathing
be aware of your own strengths as well
as areas for improvement
pack yourself on the back
when you accomplish something
but don't beat yourself up
too badly when you make the mistake
acknowledge mistakes and do better next
time
and head up
walk like a winner
you can do this
[Laughter]
it took me a long time to like myself
long long time
and um
you know it was to the point that when
people complimented me i would make
self-deprecating jokes and brush off
the compliments until someone told me
pam
don't put yourself down
just say thank you
when someone praises you and enjoy that
moment
and he is right
thank you is such a powerful word when
you say thank you like ah you know what
yeah thank you for your thoughts thank
you for your kind words thank you for
something that you have done for me
right just say thank you acknowledge and
enjoy
that
moment another thing you have to
remember
is that we are all screwed ups
to some extent we are all
every one of us
so because of that that's even more
important to love yourself
because no one else will or if you need
to learn to love yourself before someone
else can
is that helpful
next one you need to earn your
confidence
okay the key word here is earn
i've come to realize to overcome
impostor syndrome you need to be
confident
confidence in general doesn't come
naturally to most of us
and over a period of time you need to
earned it
you need to really show something you
deserve it right
and the best way to gain confidence is
to be very very good at something that
people will come to you for advice about
right it can be as simple as gardening
that people will come to ask you and uh
what kind of plan they should buy what
kind of you know potting soil they
should use right
it can be as simple as
writing it can be as simple as something
that you really really enjoy doing that
people will come to ask you and how to
do that
and
when they come to ask for your advice
and what they should do
you will start seeing that oh people
actually respect and appreciate your
recommendation ideas
and you will feel a major boost of
confidence and that's the good way to
earn that confidence
is that helpful
for me
becoming an independent consultant and
the speaker has helped me tremendously i
mean tremendously to build my confidence
over time
when i tell people i didn't usually
speak up at any meetings and i was very
very shy
and user was shy
no one could believe it they were like
you seriously yeah me
[Laughter]
i know
now i can actually laugh out loud about
it
and you know over time i become more
confident
by slowly it's a long play building my
b2b marketing expertise and know-how
once you have a skill set that you can
use to help others
you be you begin tapping into your full
potential you become unique
then you become
you
right
my last tip is never stop learning
and exercise
this is another way to overcome imposter
syndrome
that you continue to enrich your mind
and your well-being and this is very
important like i said if you feel good
about yourself mentally and physically
then you start to like yourself is that
you know what i look good
when you start liking yourself and have
a unique skill that you can call on your
own you'll start recognizing your
worthiness
when you start recognizing how good you
are
guess what you want to be you
not someone else
bear in mind this is not important
things
impostor syndrome comes and goes
it will never completely go away
even though now i'm still you know now i
can like stand on my own feet and be
myself but the other time i still look
at someone else i was like oh my god
she's so good
i want to be like her
right so that symptom comes and goes it
never goes away
but that's just part of lives being
alive that's part of being human
there'll always be moments
when you're going to feel like you know
what the other side of grass is
definitely greener but is it true though
is it
when you have those thoughts you need to
turn the love yourself switch on right
here
okay
see it
love
who you are
tell yourself that you are worth it
don't be shy
say that out loud you are worth it
to recap here are four top tips to
overcome impostor syndrome number one
don't believe all the wonderful photos
and people post on social media it
doesn't mean their lives are perfect
okay
number two
learn to love yourself if you don't it's
harder for others to love you
number three earn your confidence by
being very very good at something just
something it doesn't have to be
something professional
number four continue to learn
and
exercise
so how do you overcome imposter syndrome
well let me say that one more time
i scoot up see
how do you overcome impostor syndrome
i'd love to hear from you and your
thoughts
i hope you enjoyed today's coffee break
don't forget to like comment and
subscribe and join me next time for a
brand new topic take care bye